---
layout: post
title: Marathon
---
Sunday October 21st, I was able to complete the same 26.2 mile journey Pheidippides ran from Marathon to Athens to deliver the news of a military victory against the Persians at the Battle
of Marathon.  And I can relate how he dropped dead delivering the news.  A marathon is no joke.  The morning was absolutely perfect temperature without wind and we got to see the sun rise hitting the mountains.  I was able to cruise through the half marathon without stopping, 9:18 minute mile pace.  The pain started to kick in around mile 15.  I started to walk a bit to catch a breather.  Then, shooting lower back pain and the intense desire to 
sit down.  I felt like I needed to lie down immediately.  AFter that, brutal knee pain on my left knee.  I've never had anyting like this before.  I shuffled, walked, shuffled 
until about mile 25.  It was quite painful to walk the remainder of the race.  On the last mile, I had a slight second wind and was able to at least run
to finish up the race.  It took me 5 hours and 30 minutes to complete it.  Here are a few takeaways:
<br><br>
1. I have a newfound respect for Marathon finishers and an even higher respect for ultra runners.
2. It takes a long, long time to prepare for a marathon and beyond.
3. For now I'm definitely in the "One and done" category but this could potentially change.
4. My favorite distance is the half marathon and I will focus on this distance for future runs.
5. I can cross this off my bucket list
6. Endurance events draw very interesting and cool people.
7. I'm proud of myself as I'm in a category that less than 1% of Americans fall into!
8. Definitely more of a fan of trail races for the future and bike rides.  Let's go!
